foreign
welcome to class number three of the
film of social media now where are my
people at that joined me in the
challenge last week so the challenge
last week was you had to turn your
screen time on and see how you did
and I told them that uh there's no
embarrassment or being shy in this
matter
and that I would start off with myself
okay
so my screen time was absolutely
horrible and honest to God Allah I'm
very sharing this with you only just
very sharing this with you only jus
because I said that I would that's the
only reason I'm sharing it it was eight
only reason I'm sharing it it was eigh
hours eight hours is my screen time but
hours eight hours is my screen time bu
now let me try to defend myself in some
way somehow
a lot of this was YouTube a lot of this
was YouTube and what I realized is that
was YouTube and what I realized is tha
YouTube keeps your screen on unless you
have like a subscription when you're
driving or if you're listening to
something while you're working your
screen is always on and that counts as
screen time so like the average lecture
is like 40 minutes to an hour long so
that's where a lot of the time was
coming so like three hours a day of
YouTube I'm like what's happening over
here but then I realize that it keeps
your screen on so hopefully you guys
won't judge me too badly inshallah who's
next who's next Bismillah go ahead
eight hours and a half okay
go ahead
seven hours
ten hours
that's impressive bro that's impressive
masha'allah go ahead
6 hours 47 minutes
go ahead 12 hours Allah you're
memorizing some serious Quran
masha'allah Allah yeah
the the one that he shows you like it
the the one that he shows you like i
shows you a daily average right
shows you a daily average righ
an hour and 24 Allah
three hours and three minutes
masha'allah from the sisters what do we
have
mashallah I wouldn't expect more from
you I wouldn't expect more from you
that's very good mashallah go ahead
three hours are ebooks you you have a
justification as well inshallah go ahead
three hours that's really impressive
mashallah go ahead
nine hours Allah but another person
reciting a lot of Quran mashallah so I
hope this is a good exercise oh you have
it on as well
10 hours no Habibi you're too young to
be doing 10 hours
seriously we will we'll talk after we'll
talk after inshallah
you had a science project alhamdulillah
I love that I love that okay so I hope
that was a good exercise
we have to be able to confront our own
demons we have to be able to confront
demons we have to be able to confron
our own demons in order to make progress
so you want to see where your time is
being lost and particularly if it's on
social media
then we got to fix that right
then we got to fix that righ
like as we mentioned last week the
average person would spend two hours
try not to be above average in this
matter you know we often tell people
Excel and be above average be
extraordinary not in this matter try to
be under the two hours try to be under
the two hours
so now let's move on to today's topic
which we'll be talking about publicizing
since publicizing since
what's been really fascinating on social
media this week
is people have been sharing what they've
been listening to
and how long they've been listening to
their Spotify accounts I I don't know
I'm not sure if other
um like brands do this but I know
Spotify is really big on this and a lot
Spotify is really big on this and a lo
of people were sharing this so one of
the individuals that I was following it
the individuals that I was following i
showed you know what they were listening
to but the shocking part was they shared
how many minutes of Music they had
listened to
I did some math after dividing it by 24
sorry dividing it by 60 then dividing it
sorry dividing it by 60 then dividing i
by 24. it came out to 54 days of music
that this person had listened to and I
was like subhanallah so I think this
ties in perfectly that when we talk
about you know spreading sins and
sharing sins a lot of times people don't
sharing sins a lot of times people don'
think about how much Society actually
promotes this right like Spotify and
other platforms will actually facilitate
for you to share what you're listening
to and how much you're listening to it
to and how much you're listening to i
now Spotify actually had good causes in
the sense that there are a lot of
podcasts that you can listen to and if
you're listening to podcasts great if
you're listening to podcasts great but
you're listening to podcasts great bu
if you're listening to music then this
is something that drastically needs to
change and I want to quickly speak about
change and I want to quickly speak abou
music over here
has a very good lecture called the end
of music and which he goes into detail
talking about the Islamic ruling on
music what I want to do
is counter the argument of those people
that say that music is halal counter the
argument or those people that say music
is halal now where I'm coming from over
here is firstly we have to Define what
here is firstly we have to Define wha
type of music we're talking about so
contemporary music that has a lot of
profanity in it that's you know
promoting uh a very Haram culture that
promoting uh a very Haram culture tha
we all need to agree upon is Haram by
consensus no one will tell you that that
consensus no one will tell you that tha
sort of music is Haddad
in the past you've had two Scholars that
in the past you've had two Scholars tha
are often quoted that have allowed music
you have IBN hazam and Imam
Allah great Scholars of Islam they have
done tremendous work and they are the
ones that are often quoted in music
being Halal but when they speak about
being Halal but when they speak abou
music being Halal two things needs to be
understood two things need to be
understood
number one they were speaking about
number one they were speaking abou
things like classical music so it was
just playing instruments and nothing
else number two
we as Muslims were not so much concerned
about who held the opinion but were more
concerned with what was the evidence for
their opinion
so you will find Hadith in sahil bukhari
where the Prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam says that towards the end of
times there will be a group of people
that will consider my eyes if as being
Halal
is a synonym of music without going into
too much detail you can listen to what
too much detail you can listen to wha
he has to say about it
so their intention was not to promote
evil of the industry that exists today
but their way of approaching it was that
but their way of approaching it was tha
things are within of themselves Halal
and there's no evidence to indicate
explicitly that it is Haram so it
explicitly that it is Haram so i
remains upon its default ruling it being
Halal but it wasn't about the music that
Halal but it wasn't about the music tha
we have today so to justify what people
listen to today through the likes of
Imam through the likes of
Allah is not justified so that's just a
brief snippet I wanted to share with you
and inshallah you can listen to maki's
lecture the end of music to refer back
to that now let's get back to our issue
at hand
more uh back in time so let's start off
with a verse from the Quran in Surah
verse number 19 it can be translated as
indeed those who like that immorality
should be spread among the Believers
will have a painful punishment in this
world and the Hereafter Allah knows and
you do not know so the word that Allah
used for immorality over here is which
is lewdness and immorality so here Allah
says that those people that love to
spread this immorality they will have a
punishment in this life and the
Hereafter and Allah knows and you do not
Hereafter and Allah knows and you do no
know and this last part that's the scary
part when Allah says and Allah knows and
you do not know he's talking about the
severity of the punishment and how this
punishment will impact you we all have
different tolerances for pain we all
have different tolerance is for
punishment but here Allah is posing a
threat that you do not know how this
punishment will impact you that is going
to be so severe that it's going to be in
this life and the Hereafter and be
prepared because you don't know how
severe it is be prepared you don't know
how severe it is so here there is a
severe warning from the Quran that do
not spread your sins nor spread to the
sins of others why is this prohibition
there let's look at two angles right now
from the beginning
angle number one is that as we've been
discussing throughout the series as
Believers when we see a sin and we're in
the position of authority we change it
the position of authority we change i
with our hands if we're not in a
position of authority but we have
ability we speak out against it if we
don't have ability then we hate it in
our hearts meaning that When sin is done
that is you know the three-tiered
approach we want to take towards it
approach we want to take towards i
so if you are sharing a sin you're going
against this tiered approach
then number two is the ramification of
the sin the ramification of the sin also
breaks down into two
number one we'll discuss this Hadith in
detail as it's coming up or actually
let's just take it right now that the
prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam says
every one of my nation will be forgiven
except for those that sin in public
among them is a man who commits an evil
deed in the night that Allah has hidden
for him then in the morning he says o
people I have committed this sin his
Lord had hidden it during the night but
Lord had hidden it during the night bu
in the morning he reveals what Allah has
hidden so this shows us that Allah is
merciful nature with us is that when we
commit to sin the default is that Allah
has covered it for us and no one knows
about it
about i
and then the daytime comes and you share
it with the people when Allah has
covered it this is as if you're
rejecting the mercy of Allah and
rejecting this gift from Allah so that's
one component to this the second
component to this
that whoever initiates a good deed in
Islam will get the reward of the one
that does it and whoever initiates a sin
in Islam and a bad deed in Islam will
get the evil deed of the one that does
it as well and oftentimes all that
it as well and oftentimes all tha
people need is that sense of
encouragement so people see one person
doing it and they feel it gives them
license you know what not only should I
can I commit to sin as well but I'm
going to publicize it as well and this
goes back to this fact of sharing your
Spotify playlist and how long you've
listened it to it for what is the sense
behind that can someone explain that
behind that can someone explain tha
like why would you publicly disclose how
much time you've wasted listening to
this stuff right is purely about
this stuff right is purely abou
following Trends and being socially
validated and getting those likes and
we'll come to discuss the impact that
we'll come to discuss the impact tha
that has as well so now let us establish
another Baseline as well which is each
and every one of us is prone to sin
Allah's Messengers
that all of the children of Adam are
sinners they're going to make mistakes
so that's inevitable
but how we respond to the mistake is
Paramount and that is why the prophet
Paramount and that is why the prophe
salallahu alaihi wasallam goes on to say
that the best of those that sin are the
ones that repent to Allah
so part of your repentance should be
that you do not disclose your sins not
that you do not disclose your sins no
publicly not to anyone else and you keep
it to yourself and you keep it to
yourself now question for you
is there a time where you are allowed to
disclose a sin that you have committed
what do you guys think
if you have an answer raise your hand
go ahead yeah
if you're confessing to someone that is
a very very interesting Concept in Islam
we don't confess our sins except to
Allah
knows everything right
knows everything righ
like
so you're telling Allah so you're
basically saying that Allah forgive
kind of like Toba I'll accept it I know
you're coming from the right place
there's a sister with her hand up go
ahead
mm-hmm
excellent so we'll take that as rule
number one so particularly for liba
um did you attend the sisters class this
Wednesday by any chance no okay because
we spent a lot of time talking about
we spent a lot of time talking abou
that so particularly when it comes to
Reba when you make Toba for riba it's
not just about you asking Allah for
forgiveness but in this situation where
you've backed it in another individual
and it will not lead to a greater you
actually are required to go and
apologize to them for that sin you
apologize to them as long as it doesn't
apologize to them as long as it doesn'
lead to a greater so this is number one
that if you've done something wrong to
someone and you go to apologize to them
you specify what it is for So you you're
telling them about that sin how about
telling them about that sin how abou
scenarios two and three
go ahead
um
a higher authority than
life
but why would you tell them about a sin
that you committed like I'm trying to
think about a scenario why would you
need to tell them that
yeah I think you're hiding it in the
right direction you're like halfway
there but you need to just work on it a
little bit go ahead
excellent so that's number two a person
that's seeking professional help and
this person has experience or is trained
in this matter so dealing with
addictions and those sort of things so
in that sort of situation you can speak
to a professional counselor and tell
them what you're addicted to and tell
them what you are struggling with that
them what you are struggling with tha
is scenario number two
go ahead
interesting so what are you referring to
exactly
okay
okay I'll be honest I did not think of
that but I will accept that as well so
we're going to make that number three
and then move on to number four so
number three what the brother said was
that if you're proposing to someone and
you have a habit like vaping this is
something that you should disclose this
is something that you should disclose
that you have this habit with the
intention that you're trying to give it
intention that you're trying to give i
up and you're seeking the professional
help to give it up what is a fourth
scenario that you can disclose a sin and
it would be valid
go ahead
okay so you slash their tires then you
go and tell them hey I slashed your
tires
I don't know man this is a tough one but
I don't know man this is a tough one bu
this is I'll consider it part of the
Tomah right this is a part of though but
Tomah right this is a part of though bu
like you're making you're making you're
repenting for a mistake that you made
and you've damaged someone you go and
tell them of the damages you make so
I'll accept that but I'm going to tie
that in with number one so that still
that keeps us at four
go ahead moose
yeah go ahead
no that's not what I'm thinking of but I
got happy when you raised your hand I'm
going to share the answer that I'm
looking for the answer that I'm looking
actually go ahead we didn't go to you
Allah explained
exactly and that's why you find so many
stories of Toba from the salaf that they
share their stories of tawba you have
like the famous story of Malik dinar and
uh I believe how they used to steal and
how they used to drink and eventually
they repented and they share these
stories not for the sake of exposing
their sins but for the sake of
encouraging the Sinners that look let me
help you use this story as a lesson if I
was able to do it you'll be able to do
it as well so to inspire people to make
tawba so to inspire people to make Toba
so those are the scenarios under which
it would be permitted to expose a sin
those are the scenarios under which it
those are the scenarios under which i
would be
permissible to expose your sin now he
goes on to discuss one of the names of
Allah
and often we hear the name
and they're often considered synonymous
but Allah knows best the more authentic
version of Allah's name is actually a
sithir the one that perpetually covers
up and regularly covers up now the
beauty of this name is that if you look
at some of the commentary of the
scholars when it comes to this
they talk about
they talk abou
discovering that Allah does
is such a beautiful covering like
he says that imagine of Allah had put an
order to our sins imagine if Allah had
put an order to our sins no one would
want to sit next to us no one would want
want to sit next to us no one would wan
to sit next to us so a city or the one
that covers up those sins hides that
that covers up those sins hides tha
odor that the sin would have given off
how is that order that the one that has
given off you have other great imams
that talk about when people are
impressed with you they are not
impressed with you they are no
impressed with your Deeds but they're
impressed with the covering up of Allah
of your sins they're impressed with the
covering up of Allah of your sins and
this is what is extracted from the name
of Allah
so often times when a person commends to
sin not only do we make Toba and seek
Allah's forgiveness but we ask Allah for
sitter we ask Allah to cover our faults
from the people because we don't want
from the people because we don't wan
our faults to be exposed not in this
life nor in the Hereafter Allah talks
about one of the very first punishments
that will take place on the day of
judgment is the humiliation of people
the very first punishment will be the
humiliation of people so we know the
famous Hadith of the The Scholar the
Martyr and the generous person they all
say that I did this for your sake of
Allah and Allah says that you have lied
and they will be dragged on their faces
and thrown into the Hellfire why dragged
onto their faces to be humiliated in
front of the people so when you seek
sitter from Allah Allah conceals your
sins in this life and the next so make
that as a part of your Dua that you ask
Allah for sitter in this life and the
nex
now
let's talk about people getting exposed
so you will see from time to time people
will get exposed and you may think to
yourself subhanallah how did this person
get exposed is
Muslim
so Malik he reports the story of a thief
at the time of um the thief said by
Allah I have never stolen before this so
this thief has been caught Omer said you
have lied by the Lord of ummar Allah
does not take a slave after the first
does not take a slave after the firs
sin meaning that Allah will not expose a
person for the first sin that they have
committed
said o leader of the Believers Allah is
more forbearing than to take a slave for
his first sin
Umar then gave the order that this man
should be punished then Ali asked him to
speak the truth how many times before
had you stolen and he said 21 times 21
times
and this is a second lesson over here
subhanallah
that a lot of us will struggle with sins
a lot of us will struggle with sins
but the key over here
is to improve and to have the intention
to improve and the intention to change
and never ever give up on that intention
and as long as you do that
and as long as you do tha
you will have the sitter of Allah as
long as you don't expose it to yourself
and this is like a a big thing in our
times
due to the nature of the internet where
you can do things privately and no one
will know about them except you and
Allah
it's very important that we keep this
intention in mind
that as you struggle with your sin
repent to Allah
Rectify your intention that oh Allah
helped me to never commit to sin again
and if it happens do the same thing
again and keep doing it but also make
sure you're trying to make habits to
change that bad habit so I'll give you
an example
one of the things that ends up happening
particularly with young men they end up
watching things on the internet that
watching things on the internet tha
they shouldn't be doing
how do you change this
so one of the things that you can do
is get a Net Nanny installed on your
internet so don't know the password give
it to someone else and it blocks all of
those websites It blocks all of those
websites number two keep your computer
in a public space don't have it just in
your room or if you have it in your room
leave the door open and never close the
door while you're using the computer
number three ask Allah for help this is
something that isn't done enough
let's seek refuge in Allah from the sins
of the ice and ask Allah to protect your
eyes and to protect your heart and to
protect your Chastity the same Dua that
protect your Chastity the same Dua tha
the prophet salallahu said the mate for
the young man that came and asked
permission to commit Zina
right so continue to do these things and
make sure you're taking those proactive
steps do not share your sins publicly
and keep rectifying your intention
and as long as you do it with that then
a time will come where you will be over
to come you will be able to overcome it
to come you will be able to overcome i
you and Allah
are stronger than any sin that you could
be addicted to you have to believe that
be addicted to you have to believe tha
and that is a part of the change process
that you and Allah together are stronger
than any sin that you're committed to or
addicted to and you have to believe that
addicted to and you have to believe tha
as a part of the process so now getting
exposed Allah gives people many many
opportunities and he continues to
conceal
but if they stop making tawba and they
do not make a sincere effort to give up
then Allah exposes them and we seek
refuge in Allah from that I mean now
we've spoken about this before as well
the internet is forever the internet is
forever and it's really scary what that
forever and it's really scary what tha
actually means like if you go into like
Google archives if you like had a Blog
in like you know 1999 somehow Google has
an archive of it and it's crazy some of
the things that the internet is able to
retain now why is this so important why
is this so important because you may
think you're young you know what it'll
erase it'll go away it'll get forgotten
but when it comes time for marriage and
they type your name into Google and then
Google archives comes up you're going to
get exposed
you apply for a job one of the things
that they're doing these days is they
want to see your social footprint online
right you're applying for other things
other opportunities even going to
University now into Masters and PHD
programs they look at your social
footprint online and they see what
footprint online and they see wha
you've done
so you may think that I'm young I'm
going to get away with it it's not going
to have an impact but trust me those
things don't get erased and don't get
things don't get erased and don't ge
deleted and when those mistakes are done
it's very hard to erase them and get
it's very hard to erase them and ge
them off the internet they are very
complicated ways to do that but at the
end of the day prevention is better than
cure prevention is better than cure so
take the approach that I'm not going to
publicize any of my mistakes any of my
faults any of my sins
online
which leads us to the responsibility of
the believer
of casting away doubt from themselves
the responsibility of the believer The
Cast Away doubt from themselves
the prophet salallahu
and his wife Sophia came to see him
and as they were leaving
it was dark outside and there was no
lights there's no lampposts there's no
lights out there and two men walked by
the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam as
he was with Sophia
the best of mankind if anyone gets the
benefit of the doubt it is the prophet
benefit of the doubt it is the prophe
salallahu alaihi wasallam but he teaches
us the noble thing to do
to cast off doubt from yourself whenever
possible yes people should give you the
benefit of the doubt in all scenarios
people should give you the benefit out
people should give you the benefit ou
of the doubt but the prophet saws
teaches us a very valuable lesson so he
goes to these two Believers and he tells
them that this is my wife Sophia she's
not a strange woman that I'm with and
they say ya rasulallah we would only
assume the best of you you know there is
no need for you to do this but look at
no need for you to do this but look a
what the prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam says he says shaytan circulates
in the body of man just as blood
circulates and I was afraid he would
instill evil suspicion in your hearts
so the responsibility of the believer is
to Cast Away doubt from themselves so if
you are ever in a situation that could
compromise your integrity could
compromise your character
make sure if you're seen in such a
situation you explain what you are doing
there rather than assuming that people
will give you the benefit of the doubt
will give you the benefit of the doub
rather than assuming that people will
give you the benefit of the doubt they
should but as the prophet saw Allah
explains that even the best of people
can be overcome by shaytan
shaytan plants that seed hey wasn't this
the guy that was leaving the Salah in
the Masjid wasn't this the guy that was
speaking about X Y and Z wasn't this the
guy that tells people The Good Deeds
what is he doing in such a situation
what is he doing outside of this place
and shaytan keeps planting that seed
till you start wondering and then you go
and ask someone hey you know what I saw
I saw so and so outside of such and such
place what do you think they were doing
there and then you guys start back
biting and you start guessing what they
were doing there
but in that sort of situation
clarify what you're doing and you save
yourself a lot of headache you save
yourself a lot of headache
now I want to share a quick quote with
you from Vincent surf I think that's how
you pronounce his name Cerf and he's
known as one of the fathers of the
interne
he said the internet is a reflection of
our society and that mirror is going to
be reflecting what we see
if we do not like what we see in that
if we do not like what we see in tha
mirror the problem is not to fix the
mirror we have to fix Society we have to
fix Society
now I want you to take a guess
what is the number one type of site that
what is the number one type of site tha
is created every single day
what do you think that is do you think
it's something good or something bad so
the type of site that's created every
single day is it something good or
something bad
no I love the fact that you're so young
and innocent may Allah keep you like
that always it's something bad and it's
not even close like if you look at the
numbers for adult entertainment the
number of sites that are created every
single day it outshadows like every
other category exponentially
exponentially outshadows all the other
categories and you can add like business
websites you can add blogs you can add
whatever and exponentially those sins
are still greater subhanallah and that's
the reality of it so when we look at the
internet and we take this quote at face
value
then that is a reflection of the
sicknesses and the illnesses in our
society
and we as a community have a
responsibility that starts off with
ourselves first
ourselves firs
then we want to make sure that we're not
then we want to make sure that we're no
consuming this content we want to make
sure that we try to stay away from it
sure that we try to stay away from i
and we lead us Halal as a lifestyle as
possible but then the second tier to
this is that what are we doing to
counter this immorality what are we
doing to counter this immorality and
that's a discussion for another time
right what does it look like as a
collective that is trying to counter
immorality that is trying to counter
immorality and one of the things that
immorality and one of the things tha
needs to be spoken about is also the
agenda of the LGBT community right we
have to speak about that at some point
have to speak about that at some poin
or another and there's a great lecture
that I would encourage people to listen
to
that he speaks about the agenda of the
LGBT community and the responsibility of
faith-based communities encountering
such agendas encountering such agendas
so that's something very important to
look at
look a
now
we've spoken about sharing our own sins
but how about sharing the sins of others
how about sharing the sins of others
so on Instagram you can share other
people's photos you can share other
people's stories on Twitter you can
quote retweet to them
and there's a point that needs to be
made over here
that as people promote their sins
even in trying to counter that sin we
should not be sharing it even trying to
counter that sin
do not share it so speak about the
concept in general Muslims shouldn't be
drinking Muslims shouldn't be at clubs
Muslims shouldn't be doing x y and z but
Muslims shouldn't be doing x y and z bu
don't bring attention to that person's
sin the prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam says o you who have believed
with their tongues yet faith has not
with their tongues yet faith has no
entered their hearts do not backbite the
Muslims and do not seek to discover
their faults for whoever seeks after
their faults Allah will seek his faults
and if Allah seeks his faults he will
expose him
where even what he comes even if what he
committed was in his own home even if
what he committed is in his own home
so let's speak about this remember maybe
if for those of you that were there for
lecture number one how do you deal with
those people that you don't like online
so islamophobes people that are
promoting evil how do you interact with
them right we've discussed this and one
of the things what someone might end up
doing is going through their history and
then exposing their history and we see
this all the time you have a question
so are you blocking you should block
them best advice you'll ever receive
block people freely feel free to block
them and don't even feel guilty about
them and don't even feel guilty abou
that you don't owe anyone anything block
everyone that bothers you look everyone
that annoys you only interact with the
people that you want to interact with
lovely advice but what I was trying to
get at was
one of the mistakes that people make is
you start going through people's
histories
start going through their Instagram
history start going through the Twitter
history pointing out their mistakes
putting out their faults trying to
discredit them and it's particularly
when you're debating someone right you
know we have these uh keyboard Warriors
all the time that want to debate people
online someone proves you wrong let's go
through their history and find a way to
discredit them because I couldn't prove
them wrong and this is what the prophet
them wrong and this is what the prophe
salallahu alaihi wasallam is referring
to in this Hadith do not be of those
people that go down the road that is so
dark
that in hurting others they're only
hurting themselves so understand the
sanctity of hurting people
now let's look at another Vice
becoming Famous by any means necessary
so you're speaking about becoming an
influencer becoming an influencer and
this is something that is in our day and
age
people see these people getting brand
endorsements and getting paid the
sponsorships and they're like you know
what this is a viable career this is
what I want to do so shaytan plants it
what I want to do so shaytan plants i
in your head I want to become famous by
any means necessary and you look at
any means necessary and you look a
certain families and I'll speak openly
about this if you look at the Kardashian
family
what positive quality do they have to
share with you name one positive quality
that they have to share with you so now
the question arises how do they arrive
to fame it's by the public sins that
to fame it's by the public sins tha
they committed and the sins that they
shared with the world
the world clicked on it the world saw it
the world clicked on it the world saw i
it created reputation for them and Brian
saw that these people now have an
audience and all of a sudden we're
sending sponsorships their way hey can
you advertise uh for us there's another
example I I don't know her name
um but she's known that as bad Barbie
she's the one that had this famous quote
with uh Dr Phil catching me outside I
don't know if you guys remember that or
not right like if you look at this lady
if you look at this lady what positive
impact does she bring to the world
absolutely nothing but she gets paid
like 16 million dollars a year for brand
endorsements and stuff like that I don't
endorsements and stuff like that I don'
quote me on the number but it's in the
millions why because eyes are on her and
as long as eyes are on her Brands want
as long as eyes are on her Brands wan
their you know brand exposed they're
like you know any exposure is good
exposure so if you look at how that
exposure so if you look at how tha
happens and this is another point that
happens and this is another point tha
needs to be understood as Muslims we
don't believe in this concept of getting
influential by any means necessary
in fact we believe in the exact opposite
the more influence you have the more
accountability you will have with Allah
so that if you can't influence to the
people towards good then at least don't
people towards good then at least don'
influence them towards bad at least
influence them towards bad at leas
don't influence them towards that and
this is why the prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam he tells us
that if you do not have any
modesty or shame whatsoever then go
ahead and act and see what Allah does
with you and see what Allah
does with you
now how do we counter this need for
recognition this need for validation
this need for wanting to be seen
and this is something that
and this is something tha
it happens to everyone the need to be
recognized but what we want to look at
recognized but what we want to look a
is who is our audience who do we want to
be seen by
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
in the farewell sermon
he ends off the sermon towards the
ending he says
that oh Allah testify that I have
conveyed the message
one of the wisdoms that you can extract
one of the wisdoms that you can extrac
to be from this is that Allah's
messenger
wanted to reinforce within himself that
wanted to reinforce within himself tha
Allah is watching what I'm doing and
Allah is a witness to what I have had
just committed meaning that towards the
end of his life he has conveyed The
Message of Islam he is conveyed The
Message of Islam was even more
fascinating is what Allah tells the
Believers in Surah to tawba
he tells us
that go ahead and act for surely Allah
and his messenger and the Believers they
see everything that you do
so if you're doing good deeds you'll get
so if you're doing good deeds you'll ge
that recognition don't seek it it'll be
a byproduct of the good deed itself you
remain sincere Allah will grant you
Kabul and acceptance amongst the people
you lack that sincerity no matter how
many ads you put up publicizing your
good deed you're not going to get
good deed you're not going to ge
acceptance amongst the people
the key is always sincerity with Allah
number two is that keeping true and good
companionship
these friends that you have that
these friends that you have tha
encourage you to be the best version of
yourselves that encourage you to work on
your weaknesses they'll encourage you to
spend time studying the Deen
and help you hide your sins and your
mistakes
they are the best form of validation and
that is what you want to seek out those
close friends that will bring you closer
to Allah bring you to bring you to the
Masjid that will help you become a
better person that is how you get your
validation
and this is what the prophet salallahu
sorry this is what Allah tells us that
sorry this is what Allah tells us tha
even friends
will be turned into enemies on the day
of judgment except for who
except for the except for those friends
that the relationship was based upon
taqwa and getting closer to Allah
now let's conclude with the action item
that he has the action item that he has
he says learn and make this Dua
regularly that the prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam would make every morning
and evening and it's reported by Abu
dhawidness
and inshallah I will share this um
on social media so that everyone can get
on social media so that everyone can ge
access to it but the summary of it is oh
Allah I ask you for your parting and
well-being in this life and the next the
Dua that starts off with Allah
but it's a good Dua to say regularly why
because it goes on to say oh Allah I ask
you for pardon and well-being in my
religious and worldly Affairs and my
family and my wealth
my weaknesses and set at ease my dismay
so Veil my weaknesses o Allah preserve
me from the front and from behind and on
my right and on my left and from above
and I take refuge with you that I should
be devoured by the Earth from underneath
and I take refuge in you that I should
so that is his action point for regard
with regards to publicizing since go
ahead
foreign
that's exactly the one that's exactly
the one maybe you can spend some time
teaching everyone inshallah go ahead
sure
of course so that's always the exception
to the rule so the sister's question is
what if they're doing something that is
considered harm to themselves and it can
end very very badly so in that sort of
situations by all means at any time
where someone is in drastic danger there
is no concept of backbiting there is no
concept of backbiting and reach out to
the appropriate person it can be their
parent it can be a professional but
parent it can be a professional bu
there's nothing there's no backbiting at
there's nothing there's no backbiting a
that time and that can definitely be
done
go ahead
of course
excellent so the brother's question is
whether regards and imams in that have
you know exposed APS done about them how
do you react to it how do you react to
it and this is panallah you know over
the past few years this has happened
more and more frequently
but we have to establish a number of
principles right off the bat that our
Dean is not tied to personalities and
it's easy that you listen to this person
every single day and you listen to the
regular's luxury uh nor uh regularly
you're going to build some sort of love
and affinity for that individual so it's
inevitable that you build attachment but
inevitable that you build attachment bu
it shouldn't come to the point where if
they do something wrong it ends up being
a crisis of faith for you and that's
what I'm talking about that you don't
what I'm talking about that you don'
want to have a crisis of faith when you
find out that you're famous celebrity
preacher has made a mistake number two
our natural response should be twofold
number one
asking Allah to protect our own sins and
to cover our own faults and thanking
Allah that we have not been exposed and
number two to make Dua that Allah guides
them if they've made this mistake or
that Allah proves their innocence if
they're actually innocent that's step
number two
step number three
is stay away from discussing this
there's no real need to discuss this I
think that's where the bigger problem is
an article is written in someone you
know does a talk and we want to share it
know does a talk and we want to share i
with people we want to discuss it with
people often look at what is the Merit
people often look at what is the Meri
of sharing it the only time
you know again talking about harm if
this individual is causing harm to the
community he's preying on the community
then yes that person should be exposed
but that is something that should be
left to the imams and the Sheikh of the
community not to the lay people and that
community not to the lay people and tha
is why the burden is so great on the
imams and the Sheikh on the community
that they have a responsibility to
protect their communities so leave that
protect their communities so leave tha
up to them but it should not be done by
the laypeople and that is the three
piece of advice I would share go ahead
oh
foreign
righ
to prevent that we spoke about
to prevent that we spoke abou
prevention right
the brother or that sister
innocen
there's a lot of power of that up but
there's a lot of power of that up bu
the pressure
from the community
can lead to suicidal ideation how will
how was us as
as
Muslims
what should we do with this situation
excellent so the brother's question is
with regards to a person that gets
exposed and now starts hiding through
the suicidal ideation
so number one
is that if this person is innocent this
person continues to ask Allah to prove
his innocence and to make their path out
his innocence and to make their path ou
of this easy and the scholars recommend
continuously making a stickler that is
one of the best ways that Allah opens
the doors number two is that the prophet
the doors number two is that the prophe
salallahu alaihi wasallam he tells us
that help your brother and sister
whether they are oppressing or being
oppressed the sahaba responded or
messenger of Allah
we know how to help someone when they're
being oppressed but how do we help
someone when they are the oppressor and
the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
said by helping them get out of their
oppression by helping them get out of
their oppression so over here the
community has a responsibility
for reforming people's behavior within
uh public spaces so if someone's doing
something bad publicly you have
responsibility to change that behavior
so in this sort of situation of a public
person has been exposed for publicly
being doing something the community has
a responsibility to sit down with this
individual and engage with this
individual if this person is sincere
they repent to Allah and tell them that
they repent to Allah and tell them tha
look I'm trying to change my ways help
me change my ways but often times and
actually I shouldn't say often what
actually I shouldn't say often wha
happens sometimes is that people become
very egotistical as they become
defensive right they're like no I didn't
defensive right they're like no I didn'
make this mistake no you guys are
overreacting no I'm innocent no you guys
are just out to get me and he started
developing this personality
of constantly being a victim and that's
what you try to want to try to avoid
that if you've made a mistake own up to
it say look I made this mistake I've
repented to Allah and I'm apologizing to
everyone and that is Step number one
step number two outline the steps that
step number two outline the steps tha
you're taking for reformation and
Rehabilitation and that is as simple as
it is do those two steps and the Muslim
Community is very forgiving
for the acceptance from the community
but if you are innocent and you're just
but if you are innocent and you're jus
being slandered
it is the Sunnah of Allah that the
innocent will be Vindicated we see this
with
we see this in the Hadith of George we
see this in many other uh in the story
of Yusuf the innocent will always be
Vindicated just have faith in Allah
will make our way out and Allah knows
best go ahead
so and then they went
more
they were canceled and they weren't
they were canceled and they weren'
allowed to
excellent question by the way was that
excellent question by the way was tha
the question you asked me last week
because remember you asked me a good
question last week I still want you to
ask me that later on though okay
so now the topic of cancer culture and
how we respond to this you know she has
a very good lecture on cancer culture I
think that's worth listening to much
longer lecture we can listen to that
longer lecture we can listen to tha
bu
should we socially punish people
for the misdeeds that they have done
and I think I want to take another angle
to this if this is an Imam this is a
Sheikh that's spreading knowledge
a part of knowledge is Baraka
right a part of knowledge is barakah and
if this person is publicly and openly
committing sins
you only want to seek knowledge
from people that you will get Baraka
through their knowledge through their
own practice through their own
implementation right so that's what
implementation right so that's wha
we're going to be referring to
now if this is just another public
figure
then again the key concept comes back
how do we get them to reform and
rehabilitate
if there is Merit and reformation and
Rehabilitation through social boycott I
think that's a step that can be taken
but is this actually proven that if you
socially boycott someone
do they rehabilitate and reform
I don't believe that to be true and I
think you know if we take the example of
Kanye West right now and everything
that's going on he's banned from Twitter
gets come back comes back to Twitter and
becomes like 10 times more worse he's
like you guys sent me on that was your
mistake I'm gonna punish you for that
mistake I'm gonna punish you for tha
now right so you have to look at the
personality that you're dealing with you
really have to look at the personality
that you're dealing with and this is why
you have to look at is this person
sincere is there putting are they
putting their ego aside are they willing
to listen to advice if they're AR we
hold them by the hand and we help them
repent and get closer but if they aren't
repent and get closer but if they aren'
for the sake of your own Deen why would
you want to interact with this person
why would you want to learn from this
person why would you want to benefit
person why would you want to benefi
from this person when there would be no
Baraka in what they're doing and saying
and implementing and along those best
and implementing and along those bes
how are you guys feeling are you guys
feeling tired right now who's tired
raise your hand who's tired raise your
hand okay so I think you know what we'll
just do a couple of more questions and
we'll call it a night and then I'll tell
you something else inshallah you have a
question go ahead
can you think of an example can you give
me an example
yeah
so there's person a and person B what
so there's person a and person B wha
happened to person a in person B
physically
okay and now what are you what are you
asking should I what should you do
tell person B
what person B knows about it because
they physically got hurt
they physically got hur
so they said something about them
no then obviously no way you should not
no then obviously no way you should no
do that that's considering the Mima
namima is you telling something to
someone else with the intention of
causing a fight so your response and
sister can have your attention yeah your
response is that if you see person a say
something about someone else if you have
the ability to go and speak to them and
tell them what they've done is wrong
that's what you need to do if you don't
that's what you need to do if you don'
have that ability stay silent and hate
it in your heart but by no means should
you go and tell someone else that hey
such and such person said such and such
about you right the only exception to
that again is like if that person says
that hey I'm gonna go and stab someone
and you see like a knife in their hand
warn them and then obviously tell the
appropriate uh professional at that time
go ahead
yeah
[Music]
excellent so the concept of seeking
leadership I actually did two sessions
on this uh that you can find on the IAC
YouTube channel uh prophetic lessons in
leadership in summary if you have the
qualifications no one else better to do
the job then yes you should see that
the job then yes you should see tha
position but if you don't have the
qualifications or if there's someone
else better to do the job find the
person that's better to do it and Allah
knows best go ahead
foreign
forgive them so the person's the
brother's question is someone that
brother's question is someone tha
shares slander with you what should you
do with that individual
forgive them and move on with your life
yes
you have the ability to advise them yeah
and walk away yes
yeah
exactly exactly well not even defend the
person like our Dean is based upon
it benefits and harms if what you're
going to do is going to lead to a
greater harm then you don't do it but if
you feel that you're able to defend the
person then by all means you should by
all means you should and whoever defends
their uh their brother and sister in
their absence Allah will protect them
from the Hellfire now I want to just
from the Hellfire now I want to jus
talk about two topics that uh are
related to this are related to this
number one
is with regards to sisters
that do not wear hijab sisters that do
not wear hijab and their social media
accounts
again I'll start off with the disclaimer
I recognize that wearing hijab is a
challenge that as a man as a brother I
will not understand and I recognize that
will not understand and I recognize tha
and I come from the position not of
judgment but from the sake of informing
and educating that today we discussed
the topic of publicizing sins
publicizing sins
if a sister does not wear hijab without
if a sister does not wear hijab withou
a valid reason
this is considered sinful behavior and
that is something that she should repent
that is something that she should repen
to Allah for
I'll go on a very quick tangent
I'll go on a very quick tangen
a part of his sister's rectification of
her behavior of that is that she can
wear her hijab in places that she feels
more comfortable so she comes to the
Masjid there's a safe space there
inshallah there's no islamophobic
attacks inshallah no one's going to
judge you because we can hope
it's a safe space you can wear your
hijab in the Masjid while you're here
but if you don't wear it on your way
back hold us at least you're making an
effort to wear it when you can and that
effort to wear it when you can and tha
is not considered hypocrisy that is
taking a gradual approach to doing the
right thing now getting to the point
right thing now getting to the poin
that I want to get at a sister that does
not wear hijab
her having a social media account can
she have a social media account yes
without a shot of a doubt she is allowed
to have a social media account with all
of the other guidelines that we have
given
but what should not happen
is for her to expose her pictures
publicly so if you're going to have an
Instagram account keep it locked only
share it with your friends that are
sisters and females as well or your male
relatives that are allowed to see you
without hijab on they're allowed to see
you without your hijaban
it is a worry and a fear and Allah
protect us all and keep us safe and
you know
by any means necessary keep us away from
the punishment of the Hellfire I mean
that these pictures that are put up
online and every time
man sees it that the Sister incurs Sin
the Sister encourse Sin and that this
goes against the Hadith of the Prophet
goes against the Hadith of the Prophe
salallahu that Allah conceals your fault
salallahu that Allah conceals your faul
and you publicize it
and you publicize i
so this is a genuine advice to rethink
our approach to social media and
influence particularly when it comes to
the sin of not wearing a hijab
and if a sister has a valid reason for
not wearing hijab and that's something
that can be looked at and explored
psychological trauma valid islamophobia
in the area that she lives in like in
France or in Quebec or something of that
France or in Quebec or something of tha
nature there are exceptions to
interaction at that time but even then
we want to mitigate that online presence
number two
is that a brother had asked me a
question two weeks ago and that was
about men watching MMA and watching uh
you know uh people fight
you know uh people figh
and I said that I would answer this
question publicly and I think this is a
a big thing there's a culture
particularly with khabib particularly
with Islam particularly with Osman and
all these Muslim Fighters that have come
and are still fighting till today
how do you respond to that how do you
respond to that
respond to tha
number one is I think we need to
understand what is halal and what is so
when we look at the contentions of
fighting
there are three things that we will talk
about that are Haram number one is the
issue of hitting on the face
number two is the issue of the aura of
the fighters themselves and then number
three is the issue of uh the ring girls
and even women fighting and even women
fighting because that's become a thing
as well
so with regards to hitting on the face
the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
has explicitly forbidden that that you
are not allowed to do so you're not
are not allowed to do so you're no
allowed to strike another individual on
the face
the only exception to this
is if a person is sparring and is
training
and your intent is not to harm and the
other person is wearing protective gear
then at that time you are allowed
hitting but not with the intention to
harm for with the intent to train so the
general rule is that it is Haram stay
away from it but with training and with
protective gear in place and no
intention to harm it will become allowed
number two with regards to the aura we
know that the aura of the man is between
the navel and the nice
he says that the aura is of two types of
what is the difference between the two
which is the aura which is severe
you're not allowed to look at even if it
you're not allowed to look at even if i
is covered up meaning you shouldn't
is covered up meaning you shouldn'
stare at that area and the person is
required to cover that area up that
required to cover that area up tha
person is required to cover that area up
and this is the upper thigh and the
private area of the man that is
he says is the area that you're not
he says is the area that you're no
required to cover up but a man should
not stare at that area either but a man
should not stare at that area either and
he says this is the lower thigh to just
he says this is the lower thigh to jus
above the the knees and this is the the
lower part of the stomach but above the
abdomen the lower part of the stomach
but above the uh the abdomen and that is
the aura khafifa that is the aura
khafifa so when you're looking at MMA
and you're looking at these Fighters
often times their Aura will be covered
by this definition but you still should
not be staring at it you still should
not be staring at it and then number
three is with the ring girls there's no
way around it she's walking
even if you're watching MMA and you
recognize that it's wrong if you can
fast forward through it if you can't
fast forward through it if you can'
lower your gaze till it's over and the
fight begins lower your gaze till the
fight's over and your fight begins now
the last thing that I'll mention
is that are all fights the same
what does that mean
what that means is the example of khabib
fighting McGregor
there is a vested interest of the Muslim
Community in that fight because it just
Community in that fight because it jus
wasn't an MMA fight anymore this was
like
the religion of Islam protecting itself
from islamophobia right like that's
literally what it was that economy
McGregor's making all these islamophobic
statements and you never have a legal
opportunity to punch these people in the
face
so we've had that opportunity you know
it was as if we were punching Conor
McGregor through khabib that night
McGregor through khabib that nigh
so I will give that disclaimer that if a
person avoids MMA and UFC but he gives
in to these like fights where it's like
Islam defending itself there may be some
rule for acceptance and tolerance but
rule for acceptance and tolerance bu
the general rule is
try to avoid it if you are going to
watch it minimize your sins and don't
watch it minimize your sins and don'
just be like I'm going to watch
everything even though the woman
fighting right there's no need to do
that there's no need to do that minimize
your sins so that is the answer I wanted
to give with that
to give with tha
now
yes
no you can you can but with those three
conditions
yeah
that's not training you go into a fight
that's not training you go into a figh
not for the sake of sparring but with
the intention to win and to defeat and
to harm right that's not that's what's
not allowed
as in like we've been discussing this
right like when you see an evil take
place
you either change it with your hands
speak out against it or hate it with
your heart and the thing with constantly
being exposed to it it becomes harder
and harder to hate it with your heart
and harder to hate it with your hear
right so I understand that this is a
phenomenon of our day and age but you
got to call it speed of speed man right
got to call it speed of speed man righ
you can't find a way around it
you can't find a way around i
and Allah knows best so if you are going
to watch it because it's such a trendy
thing try to minimize your sins that's
the the best I can say
righ
so our submissions considered lawful so
you want to attack someone instead of
punching them you put them in an onbar
is your intention to is his intention to
harm at that time
and it's not just a complete bro right
and it's not just a complete bro righ
it is to harm and that's the issue right
it is to harm and that's the issue righ
like you go into those fights with the
intent to harm with the intent to win
with the intent to prove your
superiority and someone else is
inferiority like those are the the
problems that need to be addressed all
righ
so inshallah I hope that answers that I
know we've gone on quite a bit but this
is what I want to say so I do have good
news for some of you and that is
permission to extend the series so I
know we were supposed to conclude last
know we were supposed to conclude las
week but in all honesty we're halfway
done the book and tonight I wanted to do
two chapters we only ended up doing one
so building next week we're going to try
to do four chapters so be prepared to
sit longer next week we will take a
break if we have to but I want to get
break if we have to but I want to ge
through the four chapters next week the
week after that we will finish the week
after that we will finish so that is the
good news
let's conclude with that subscribe
foreign